---
id: about-product-identifiers
themes: catalog-settings
title: About product **identifiers**
popular: true
ee: true
ge: true
related: manage-product-identifiers
---

# Context

Product identifiers are key when managing product information in the PIM and also in all your PXM workflows. We are making some changes to how we handle identifiers in Akeneo PIM to provide you with more options when creating and managing unique product identifiers.

# New features coming next months

One of our users' most popular requests is adding more capabilities to manage product identifiers. We are happy to share some exciting changes that are coming to the PIM.  

Over the next few months, we will introduce massive updates regarding identifier management, including:

- The release of an **identifier generator** fully integrated in the PIM
- The ability to use **multiple identifier attributes** to help you manage all your identifier types and improve how you search for products in the PIM

# Creating the foundations for our next features

For that purpose we will give more flexibility in the short term regarding identifier management.

1. **The SKU is no longer a mandatory field** for creating products.
    - You can now create a product without a SKU on the PIM, the API and imports
    - You can also remove the SKU from a family, meaning a SKU won’t be asked at product creation for those products and it will disappear from the product page
1. When created in the PIM, **every product is now assigned a new technical identifier, called the UUID**. The UUID gives you a new way to identify your products and is automatically and randomly generated by the PIM. It cannot be modified.

For more details, please refer to [the help center page dedicated to identifiers](manage-product-identifiers.html).

:::info
These changes are available in the _Growth Edition_ and in the _Enterprise Edition_.
:::

**Here is the table listing all usecases depending on what you fill in the UUID and SKU columns:**

| uuid | sku | family | name-en_US | Result |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | SKU-ex01 | tshirt | Existing product | Update product having SKU = SKU-ex01 |
|  | SKU-new01 | tshirt | New product | Create product with generated uuid and SKU = SKU-new01 |
|  |  | tshirt | New product | Create product with generated uuid and no SKU |
| uuid-0001 | SKU-ex02 | tshirt | Existing product | Update product having uuid = uuid-0001 |
| uuid-0002 | SKU-new02 | tshirt | New product | Create product with uuid = uuid-0002 and SKU = SKU-new02 |
| uuid-0003 |  | tshirt | Existing product | Update product having uuid = uuid-0003 and no SKU |
| uuid-0004 |  | tshirt | New product | Create product with uuid = uuid-0004 and no SKU |

::: warning
Please note that the UUID can’t be modified once the product is created.
:::

# Prepare now for this evolution

If you wish to begin creating products without the SKU in your PIM, please confirm the following steps to avoid disruption to your product catalogs:

- **Make sure leaving SKU fields empty will not have any impact on your PXM workflow**, especially any synchronization you may have configured with third party systems that might use SKU as a key entry
- **Update your API configuration with the new available API endpoints** using UUID as a technical identifier. Please read [our API documentation](https://api.akeneo.com/getting-started/from-identifiers-to-uuid-7x/welcome.html) updated with the new API endpoints.
